president of the un's highest court naav
Salam did not mince his words when
describing the situation for the
hundreds of thousands of Palestinians
trapped in the city of
Rafa in the present order the court
notes that the catastrophic humanitarian
situation in the Gaza
Strip which as stated in its order of
January 26
2024 was at serious risk of
deteriorating has deteriorated and has
done so even further and that the
humanitarian situation is now to be C
characterized as disastrous a situation
so exceptionally grave according to the
court that additional urgent measures
are needed in order to prevent possible
acts of genocide on top of measures the
judges had ordered in January and March
the state of Israel shall immediately
hold its military offensive and any
other action in the RAF Governor which
may inflict on the Palestinian group in
Gaza conditions of life that would bring
about its physical destruction in whole
or in part the court also ordered Israel
to allow un fact finding missions into
Gaza to investigate allegations of
genocide although the court did not
fulfill South Africa's request to order
Israel's complete withdrawal from Gaza
authorities welcomed the ruling this
order is groundbreaking as it is the
first time that explicit mention is made
for Israel to Halt its military action
in any area of Gaza a major step forward
that's how the South African legal team
responded to this Landmark ruling the
case that started in December could last
for years and that's why these legally
binding urgent measures are important so
potential genocidal acts can be stopped
before All Is Lost in Gaza that is if
and when Israel abides by these orders
while this verdict will add to
increasing International pressure
Israel's dismissive response to recent
rulings handed down by this court
suggest that for the people in Gaza
faith in the international justice
system is fading by the day step fast
from Al jazer the
H make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jazer